Machine Learning can be defined as an application or sub-branch of Artificial Intelligence, which provides machines the ability to discover things on its own without being explicitly told or programmed about the situation. Like we humans, learn from our past experiences and if possible improve upon them, in the same way, machines learn from the previous data and produce a note of it. In case, it engenders a similar situation on which it has been trained (trained here means, the data machine has interacted with) it can give a result as per its understanding of the situation. The principal aim of machine learning is to make computers and systems learn automatically without any human interaction. It operates in a way like it develops a mathematical model based on certain situations (situations also being known as Sample data), known as the ‘training data’ in order to make a certain prediction or decision. Likewise, we can conclude, the more is the data, the better is the model and hence the accuracy. But the above statement will not forever hold true.

On the other hand, Data Science is also a subfield of Artificial Intelligence. Data Science, as a terminal figure, was coined recently, in 2008. Data Science was previously known as Data Mining. It can be defined as the ability to extract data, be able to interpret it, process it, extract value from it and be able to visualize and communicate it. Or else, it can be defined as extracting a pattern from the given data and being able to make certain predictions about it. Data Science has developed by leaps and bounds in the previous decade. This is because of the fact that the pace of production of data has been on a tremendous rise. Technologies like Machine Learning and Big Data uses data on its backend. Thus, data can be defined as the building blocks of these technologies. The science of correctly using the data to generate meaningful insights is called Data Science. ‘Data Science is the new science’ justifies the new buzzword in the marketplace.
